What is the worst case complexity of binary search?
O(1).  
What is Ruperts algorithm? 
create quality Delaunay triangulations
What is the worst case performance of selection sort?
O(n2).
define degree of a node.
the number of subtrees of a node is called the degree of a node
what do you mean by uniform costsearch? 
a tree search that finds the lowestcost route where costs vary
What is binary search algorithm ?
locates an item in a sorted sequence
Define A Right-skewed Binary Tree?
a tree which has only right child nodes.
How do you explain topological sort?
finds linear order of nodes eg jobs based on their dependencies
Define Root.
unique node in the tree to which further sub-trees are attached.
what do you mean by nth root algorithm ?
the principal root of a positive real number a is the positive real solution of the equation
what do you mean by buchbergers algorithm
finds a grbner basis
what do you mean by point in polygon algorithms 
find the nearest point or points to a query point
Use of algorithms in computer science 
Functional programming and logic programming 
define dynamic time wrapping 
measure similarity between two sequences which may vary in time or speed
how do you explain longest common subsequence problem
find the longest subsequence common to all sequences in a set of sequences
define an acyclic graph
a simple diagram which does not have any cycles is called an acyclic graph
what do you mean by string metrics 
compute a similarity or dissimilarity distance score between two pairs of text strings
What is CPU Utilization:
Percentage of time that the CPU is doing useful work (I.e. not being idle). 100% is perfect.
What Are The Applications Of Priority Queues?											
The selection problem.Event simulation.							
define recursive algorithm
algorithm that invokes or makes reference to itself repeatedly until a certain condition 
define division algorithms 
for computing quotient andor remainder of two numbers
define kirkpatrickseidel algorithm 
is an algorithm for computing the convex hull of a set of points in the plane
What are voronoi diagrams
geometric dual of Delaunay triangulation
how do you explain best case performance of bubble sort algorithm
O(n)
what do you mean by tree sort 
build binary tree then traverse it to create sorted list
What is maximal cliques 
a clique that cannot be extended by including one more adjacent vertex,
define exhaustive search
this is the naive method of trying every possible solution to see which is best
what do you mean by wait time
time that a process spends for its turn to get executed
define schreiersims algorithms 
computing a base and strong generating set bsgs of a permutation group
how do you explain edmondsedmondskara algorithm
implementation of fordfulkerson
how do you explain tarjans strongly connected componets algorithms
an algorithm in graph theory for finding the strongly connected components of a directed graph
define pollards kangaroo algorithm 
an algorithm for solving the discrete logarithm problem
define the best case efficiency of binary search
O(1)
how do you explain toddcoxeter algorithm
procedure for generating cosets
Binary searches can be done on an array[Yes/No]?							
Yes.							
what do you mean by ftdisk ?
it is a fault tolerance disk driver for windows nt
define a folder in ubuntu
there is no concept of folder in ubuntu everything included in your hardware is a file
What is shell sort ?
an attempt to improve insertion sort
What is addition chain exponentiation
the classic ways to round numbers
What is bubble sort 
for each pair of indices, swap the items if out of order
Name Two Algorithms Two Find Minimum Spanning Tree?							
Kruskals algorithm.Prims algorithm.							
define collision detection
check for the collision or intersection of two given solids
what do you mean by lexicographic breadth search
a linear time algorithm for ordering the vertices of a graph
What is schreier-sims algorithms 
computing a base and strong generating set (BSGS) of a permutation group
how do you explain schensted algorithm 
constructs a pair of young tableaux from a permutation
What is quantum algorithm 
algorithms which seem inherently quantum
what do you mean by rabinkarp string search algorithms 
amortized linear sublinear in most times algorithm for substring search
define maxcliquedyn maximum clique algorithm 
an algorithm for finding a maximum clique in an undirected graph 
What is modular square root 
computing square roots modulo a prime number
what do you mean by borweins algorithm 
an algorithm to calculate the value of 1p
Give some simple example of algorithm 
to find the largest number in a list of numbers of random order.
what do you mean by an idle thread
the special thread a dispatcher will execute when no ready thread is found
how do you explain average case performance of binary search
O(log n)
what do you mean by executive in windows nt
the operating system code that runs in kernel mode
what do you mean by buchbergers algorithm
finds a grbner basis
What is sequence sorting 
Sorting the data in a sequence 
What is the order of growth of the bubble sort algorithm?							
quadratic order.
what do you mean by hamming distance 
sum number of positions which are different
how do you explain convex hull algorithms 
determining the convex hull of a set of points
how do you explain the function of turnaround time
this is considered to be the time elapsed from when a process is submitted to when it has completed
how do you explain a critical section
it is a section of code which can be executed only by one process at a time
What is push relabel algorithm 
computes a maximum flow in a graph
define minimum bounding box algorithm 
find the oriented minimum bounding box enclosing a set of points
What is an idle thread?
The special thread a dispatcher will execute when no ready thread is found.
how do you explain extended euclidean algorithm 
also solves the equation ax  by  c
what do you mean by multiplicative inverse algorithms 
an approximation of the squareroot of the sum of two squares
what do you mean by schreiersims algorithms 
computing a base and strong generating set bsgs of a permutation group
how do you explain gospers algorithm
find sums of hypergeometric terms that are themselves hypergeometric terms
what do you mean by steinhausjohnsontrotter algorithm 
generate permutations by transposing elements
how do you explain throughput
the number of processes completed  time unit
how do you explain longest increasing subsequence problem
find the longest increasing subsequence of a given sequence
What are the states of a process?
New, Runnin, Waiting,Ready and Terminated.
define cycle sort 
inplace with theoretically optimal number of writes
What Are The Applications Of B-tree?														
Database implementation.	Indexing on non primary key fields.		
define merge sorting
comparisonbased sorting algorithm
what do you mean by insertion sort 
determine where the current item belongs in the list of sorted ones and insert it there
What are residence monitors?
Early operating systems were called residence monitors.
What is primality tests
determining whether a given number is prime
define spectral layout 
a class of algorithm for drawing graphs
define the main use of dynamic programming
reduces the exponential nature of many problems to polynomial complexity
What is set division
compute elementary functions using a table of logarithms
define page cannibalizing
page swapping or page replacements are called page cannibalizing
what do you mean by jump search
linear search on a smaller subset of the sequence
how do you explain brents algorithm 
finds a cycle in function value iterations using only two iterators
how do you explain primality tests
determining whether a given number is prime
What is bitap algorithm 
fuzzy algorithm that determines if strings are approximately equal.
how do you explain introsoft 
begin with quicksort and switch to heapsort when the recursion depth exceeds a certain level
what do you mean by girvannewman algorithm 
detect communities in complex systems
What Are The Different Types Of Cpu Registers In A Typical Operating System Design?
Accumulators,Index Registers,Stack Pointer and General Purpose Registers
What is rich salz wildcat 
a widely used open-source recursive algorithm
define absolute path
absolute path is exact path from root directory
what do you mean by the best case performance of selection sort
O(n2)
What is Brents algorithm 
finds a cycle in function value iterations using only two iterators
What are serial problems 
Some problems have no parallel algorithms and are called inherently serial problems.
